---
layout: post
title: Book Review: Joshua and the City (Part 3)
categories: books
tags: books
---

  <p>Part 1 is <a href="http://honestillusion.com/blogs/blog_0/archive/2004/04/10/202.aspx">here.<br /></a>Part 2 is <a href="http://honestillusion.com/blogs/blog_0/archive/2004/04/10/203.aspx">here.</a></p>
  <p class="MsoNormal" style="margin:0in 0in 0pt;">But after all of that, the thing that most bothered me, and moved me from merely being disappointed in the book at actually offended by it, is a 20 page story arc, which he mounts a slanderous attack against the First Amendment (which he conveniently only refers to as :“the separation of Church &amp; State”). In the novel, we have a person, (whom we are lead to believe is literally the devil incarnate), brings suit against Congress (based on the dreaded “separation of church &amp; state”), and having the Supreme Court agree with him.<span>  </span>What really bothered me was that most of the people in the book club discussion group seem to thinks he was right—that events <em>would </em>happen that<em> </em>way, citing the Pledge of Allegiance case, as it was the “same thing”.<span>  </span>In actuality, it’s quite different,<span>  </span>and the best the folks in the book could hope for is finding a judge courteous enough to not laugh in their faces as he dismissed the complaint.<span>  </span></p>
  <p class="MsoNormal" style="margin:0in 0in 0pt;"> </p>
  <p class="MsoNormal" style="margin:0in 0in 0pt;">The details of the storyline go like this.<span>  </span>Since the renewal project of going so well, Joshua is asked to speak before Congress about his ideas.<span>  </span>The devil-person files a complaint, charging that Joshua is Jesus Christ, and therefore, allowing him to speak before Congress would violate”the separation of Church &amp; State”.<span>  </span>So, what’s wrong here?<span>  </span>Oh, let me count the ways….<span>  </span>First off, let us not forget that the burden of proof is on the plaintiff.<span>  </span>So, Satan, in his brief, would have had to offer proof that<span>  </span>a) there is a God, b) That He has a Son, c) that Son came down to Earth<span>  </span>in<span>  </span>the form of the human known as Jesus Christ, and, most importantly, d) that the person known a Joshua is the same person as Jesus Christ.<span>  </span>That’s going to be a rather thick brief, as people have been trying to prove those things for 2000 years.<span>  </span>OK, so let’s just say the judge was drunk, and let the case proceed, without that proof.<span>  </span>Here’s the defense’s response:<span>  </span>“By all accounts, the man known as Jesus Christ lived and died 2000 years ago. It is physically impossible for a person who died 2000 year ago to be live now; therefore Joshua and Jesus Christ are different people”.<span>  </span>And therefore Joshua would be allowed to speak.<span>  </span>OkOk… Let’s say the judge was really, <em>really</em> drunk, and agreed with the plaintiff anyway, and accepted as fact that Joshua was Jesus Christ – That <strong>still</strong> would not be enough to disallow Joshua from speaking.<span>  </span></p>
  <p class="MsoNormal" style="margin:0in 0in 0pt;"> </p>
  <p class="MsoNormal" style="margin:0in 0in 0pt;">You see, why would it?<span>  </span>Clerics of all religions speak before Congress all the time, with no Constitution problem.<span>  </span>In fact, treating them differently <em>because</em> they were clerics would in itself be a violation of the First Amendment.<span>  </span>To understand the problem, you must hear Girzone justification: “It could not be legally justified for Jesus Christ to be invited to speak in<span>  </span>Congress…as His presence and the force of His person could have undue and unjustified influence over the decision-making responsibilities ”.<span>  </span>The implications are clear:<span>  </span>Congress would want to follow the Word of God, but the Constitution is forcing them to ignore good advice and listen only to the devil.<span>  </span>In other word, the Constitution is not only stupid, but silly and actually evil.<span>   </span>This slander shows not only a complete misunderstanding of the Constitution, but also disconnect with the whole concept of tolerance of others’ beliefs.</p>
  <p class="MsoNormal" style="margin:0in 0in 0pt;"> </p>
  <p class="MsoNormal" style="margin:0in 0in 0pt;">The key here is the word “beliefs”.<span>  </span>The idea that there is a God and that his Son came to earth are <em>Beliefs</em>. And it doesn’t matter what I believe, what you belief, what the judges believe, or what the Congressmen believe. What matters is that people have the right <em>not</em> to believe it if they choose.<span>  </span>But, the thing of it here, all of Girzone's arguments are based on the premise that the belief that Jesus Christ is the Son of God is a proven fact.<span>  </span>Therein lays the rub.<span>  </span>The Constitution requires me to make allowances for you not to accept my beliefs, but it does not require accommodating people who don’t accept proven facts.<span>  </span>In other words, either the idea the Joshua is the Son of God is a belief, in which case, Congress could choose not to believe it (and Joshua could speak), or it’s a proven fact, in which case, not only would Joshua be allowed to speak, but Congress would be obligated <span> </span>to listen to him as the best advice available.<span>  </span>The only situation where Joshua would not be allowed to speak is if he had claimed he was the Son of God (while offering no prove), and <em>for that reason by itself</em> he was asked to speak before Congress, for that would be the government declaring that it’s official position is that this person is God --- which would be the same as establishing a religion.<span>  </span>(Remember that in the book, he was asked to speak based on his views about urban renewal – the fact that he may or may not be God is irrelevant to that)</p>
  <p class="MsoNormal" style="margin:0in 0in 0pt;"> </p>
  <p> </p>