---
layout: post
title: Games Tax Agencies Play
categories: my-life random-thoughts
tags: my-life random-thoughts
---

  <p>I live in NJ, and last year (and half of this year -- but that's another story) I worked in New York State (Manhattan to be precise).  This meant that back in April, in addition to the Federal tax return, I also had to file returns for both NY &amp; NJ.  I used TaxCut (Sooo much better that TurboTax), which has the interesting quirk of only allowing you to file one state return electronically.</p> <p>So, I had to mail the NYS return.  I made one small mistake  --- I forgot to include my W-2 form.  (As it is impossible to include the form with the electronically filed returns, I just forgot about it).  Apparently, New York State took offense to this, and sent me a letter complaining about "a problem" with the return (It did take a bit of figuring to determine the problem was the missing W-2).  But at the time I had bigger problems (It's related to why I'm not working in NYC anymore), and, since I was getting a refund anyway, I wasn't too concerned about it, and put it off for a while (and I still had to <em>find</em> my w-2 form).</p> <p>Apparently, NY State doesn't like being ignored.  They sent me a letter claiming that I owed the $4400!   Reviewing the letter, it included a summary of my tax return --- exact as I had filed it, with one exception --- they did not acknowledge that I had had any money withheld from my paycheck to pay the state tax.   I returned the letter (with the "Dispute" box checked) including a new copy of my return <em>with</em> the w-2.</p> <p>But, I did find it interesting that the <strong>one line</strong> of my tax return that they chose not to believe was the one line that they <strong>knew for a fact</strong> was correct --- the amount of money I had already paid them.</p>