---
layout: post
title: The Tale of the Trotting Horse
categories: 
tags: 
---

  <p>It was originally a GW-Basic program for MSDOS.  I'm not even sure where I got it from --- Possibly PC Magazine.  It drew five images of a horse running, and then flipped between them, demonstrating simple animation.  <em>Really </em>simple animation, but in the early 80's that was impressive on a PC. I believe the original source claimed that the images were drawn from the photos taken by [wikipedia:Eadweard Muybridge], which inspired the entire motion picture industry.  And while the horses to look similar, that one had a rider and this one doesn't.... Anyway, I remember hacking it, so that instead of one horse, it would show four.  I staggered the starting position among them so that they wouldn't appear in lock step.</p> <p>But eventually, I moved to Windows, so I created a WinApp version of it in 1990, for Windows 3.0. </p> <p>[photo:4450]  Shown, actual size.</p> <p>It was a simple a little app, which just sits in the corner of your screen, just endlessly running.  It reminded me of the Talking Heads' video "Road to Nowhere".</p> <p>This led to a wee bit of fame, as it was included in the book <em>Windows Magic Tricks  </em>by Judd Robbins (Copyright 1992, Sybex; probably out of print for years).  A reader of that book wrote to me to point out that, despite it's original name of "Galloping Horse", the horse was, in fact, trotting.</p> <p>The trick to writing that was converting the image data, which was just an array of hex bytes, and was intended to be drawn on a DOS screen, into a Windows bitmap, but by borrowing a couple functions from Petzold's [amazon:type=Blended:search=157231995X] (Actually, it was my <em>autographed</em> first edition), I got it working.</p> <p>Then I tried running two or more instances of it at the same time.  That got a bit monotonous, so I added a counter to figure out how many were running at once, and varied the background for each subsequent instance.  In 16-bit Windows, where there was virtually no memory protection, this was easy. </p> <p>  In his chapter on animation, Petzold describes using a timer to move the image, but warns that Windows only has 16 timers available, so he suggests using the idle time.  I tried that at first, but it made the horse run too fast, so I went back to a timer.  However, this limited me to only 16 Horse running at once.  This wasn't really a problem, but sometimes the urge to be robust just gets the best of you, so I needed to fix it.  I learned that if you have 16 copies running at once, it put enough of a strain on the system that the idle time method of animation works OK (provided that "the system" in question was a 386, but I digress), so I added an algorithm to try to create a timer, and if that failed, to fall back to using the idle time.  </p> <p>Cool trick: start 17 instances at once, so that the 17th is not using a timer.  Then kill them one at a time, starting with the first --- The last one keeps getting faster and faster.  Unfortunately (well, actually, "<em>Fortunately"</em>, but for other reasons), with Windows 3.1, Microsoft bumped the number of timers to 32, so that got to be more work.</p> <p>When Windows 95 was introduced, I started to write a Win32 version, but never finished -- The improved memory isolation made duplicating the features a problem, and the 16-bit version still worked.</p> <p>However, with Windows XP, the 16-bit subsystem complains about it every now and then, so I figured that time was right to go all the way, and write a .Net v2 / C# version.  As I started to write it, a found the older incomplete Win32 version, so first finished that one.  I found a simple way to count the number of instances running (using a semaphore), but, since I didn't want to add a main menu to an application whose purpose is to be small and unassuming, the real trick was adding a menu item (for the About box) to the system menu from C#. </p> <p>Now, you can have all three version <a href="http://honestillusion.com/files/folders/misc/entry4451.aspx">here.</a></p> <p>Horse16.exe was written in C in 1990.</p> <p>Horse32.exe is written in C++ from the same source as Horse16.  It's really a C program, except I can no longer deal with declaring all my variables at the top of the function, so I renamed the file with a .cpp extension.</p> <p>Horse.exe is written in C#.</p> <p>Horse16 &amp; Horse32 use the win.ini (remember that?) to store their information.  Horse uses the registry.</p> <p>Due to the different method used to determine multiple instances, Horse32 &amp; Horse have an arbitrary limit of 100 instances at once.</p>